# Foam Jekyll Template

This is a Jekyll starter template for [Foam](https://foambubble.github.io/foam/), forked from the official [foam-template](https://github.com/foambubble/foam-template) which implicitly relies github pages for publishing.

You can find me in [foam-jekyll-template](https://github.com/hikerpig/foam-jekyll-template), or create your new project using this template.

## Getting started

Replace `baseurl` and `repository` in `_config.yml` file to your own namespace (if you are going to deploy it to Github or Vercel).

### Start Jekyll locally

Dev mode:

```
jekyll serve --baseurl ''
```

Or build:

```
jekyll build --baseurl ''
```

## Deploy

### Approach 1. To Github

Once you have github pages settings configured, it will be automatically deployed after you pushed.

### Approach 2. Build and Deploy Manually To Your own machine

After build is done, you can sync `_site` directory to your VPS for deployment.

### Approach 3. To Vercel

Check the foam's official [Vercel recipe](https://foambubble.github.io/foam/vercel) to learn how to import project into Vercel.

And don't forget to override the build command to `jekyll build --baseurl ''`.

## Using Foam

We've created a few Bubbles (markdown documents) to get you started.

- [[inbox]] - a place to write down quick notes to be categorised later
- [[foam-tips]] - tips to get the most out of your Foam workspace

**NOTICE** the autogerated link references below is essential for Jekyll to generate link for currently not yet supported wikilinks.

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[inbox]: inbox "Inbox"
[foam-tips]: foam-tips "Foam tips"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"
